# L6. Consuming SOAP and REST

## 1. Introduction

TOPIC : Third-party RESTful API or SOAP based web service

Third-party? means it was developed by another developer or organization.

---

## 2. Consuming REST



There are times when you want to consume (or call) publicly accessible web services or APIs in your application. If there is a web service or API available that provides the data you need, it doesn’t make sense for you to build one from scratch. This allows you to deliver your products and services faster to your end users.

[RestTemplate](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/web/client/RestTemplate.html) allows you to consume a REST API programmatically from your code.

---

## 3. Case Study: Consume REST

### REST Case Study
The code can be cloned from [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/videolearning/udacity-java/tree/master/Lesson6-consuming/consuming%20rest%20apis). The publicly accessible Joke API is https://official-joke-api.appspot.com/random_joke.

### Jackson : a library that serializes or maps(binds) Java objects to JSON and vice versa.

### 필요한 의존성
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.fasterxml.jackson.core</groupId>
    <artifactId>jackson-databind</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

---

## 4. SOAP & Spring Web Services

### Consuming SOAP

There maybe times when you want to consume a SOAP-based service as opposed to a REST-based service. The process is different from what we saw with consuming a REST API, and it's a bit more complicated.

The public API that we are going to consume is a fun one, that takes a number and converts it to the word form of that number.

### Spring Web Services

Spring Web Services makes this process easy by automatically generating the files you need in order to consume a SOAP-based web service. In order to generate the files, the WSDL for the SOAP service in question is needed. WSDL stands for Web Services Description Language and simply describes the web service: its location and the operations allowed. 

pring Web Services is contract-first only. This means that you need to start from a contract definition (XSD or WSDL) to generate the files.

#### Dependencies
The ```spring-boot-starter-web-services``` dependency includes the needed dependencies for using Spring Web Services.

#### Generate Java Files
To generate Java classes from the WSDL in maven, you need the following plugin setup:

```xml
<plugin>
   <groupId>org.jvnet.jaxb2.maven2</groupId>
  <artifactId>maven-jaxb2-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>0.14.0</version>
    <executions>
        <execution>
            <goals>
                <goal>generate</goal>
            </goals>
        </execution>
    </executions>
       <configuration>
        <schemaDirectory>${project.basedir}/src/main/resources/wsdl</schemaDirectory>
         <schemaIncludes>
            <include>*.wsdl</include>
        </schemaIncludes>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
```

This plugin uses JAXB, which generates the Java classes and handles the mapping of XML to Java and vice versa. In order to generate the Java files, run the ```mvn generate-sources``` Maven command. This can easily be done via the command line or through IntelliJ. This results in a number of generated Java classes under ```/target/generated-sources/xjc```. Once you have the generated code, you can create a web service client by simply extending the ```WebServiceGatewaySupport``` class and coding your operations.

---

## 5. Case Study: WSDL

### SOAP Case Study

The code can be cloned from [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/videolearning/udacity-java/tree/master/Lesson6-consuming/consuming%20soap). The publicly accessible web service is [NumberToWords](https://www.dataaccess.com/webservicesserver/NumberConversion.wso?op=NumberToWords), implemented by DataFlex, converts numbers to its word version. The [WSDL](https://www.dataaccess.com/webservicesserver/numberconversion.wso?WSDL) file defines the operations available.

### Spring-Web-Services(aka. Spring-ws-core)
 * __helps with the creation and consumption of XML.__
 * __Features include XML mapping to objects and vice versa using JAXB.__
 * It also __includes multiple libraries to support parsing XML.__
 * Spring-ws is __contract-first only__; This means that you need to start from a contract definition like a WSDL or XSD file to generate the Java files.
 * The next step is to __generate the domain objects based on the WSDL.__
 
---

## 6. Case Study: Code Generation

In order to generate Java classes from a WSDL file, there's some setup that needs to happen in your Maven pom file.

```xml
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.jvnet.jaxb2.maven2</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-jaxb2-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>0.14.0</version>
    <executions>
        <execution>
            <goals>
                <goal>generate</goal>
            </goals>
        </execution>
    </executions>
    <configuration>
        <schemaDirectory>${project.basedir}/src/main/resources/wsdl</schemaDirectory>
        <schemaIncludes>
            <include>*.wsdl</include>
        </schemaIncludes>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
```

This plugin uses JAXB which generates the Java classes and handles the mapping of XML to Java and vice versa.

```<schemaDirectory>${project.basedir}/src/main/resources/wsdl</schemaDirectory>``` this is very important because it points to the WSDL file that the plugin will use to generate the Java code.

In order to generate the Java classes, you'll have to run the Maven generate-sources command. 

In IntelliJ, far right-hand side, there's Maven configurations. On the top side bar, click the 'Execute Maven Goal', then you can enter 'generate-sources' then click Execute.

When 'BUILD SUCCESS' comes on your terminal, this results in a number of generated Java classes.

Those are under 'target' folder, go to 'generated-sources' and look for 'xjc', underneath this, you will see all of the classes that you need.

---

## 7. Case Study: Client

Create a responsible for calling out to the NumberToWords service, just create `NumberClient` class and __extends WebServiceGatewaySupport__. __In order to create a web service client, all we need to do is extends WebServiceGatewaySupport.__

---

## 8. Lab: Consume an API

### Lab: Consume an API

Consume a publicly accessible API from Java using one from this [list](https://github.com/public-apis/public-apis/blob/master/README.md).

 * Step 1: Add the Jackson dependency to the Maven POM file.
 * Step 2: Use RestTemplate to test a publicly accessible API from the list.

---

