# L7. Documentation

## 1. Introduction

Swagger : dynamically generates documentation from your Java code and some of it's components like Swagger UI.

---

## 2. Importance

It’s very important to document your REST APIs. There could be other developers that need to use your APIs or you may have customers that want to use your APIs to help speed up their development time.

Documentation is a good way to communicate to others how they can use your APIs. Documentation communicates the operations available, the format for requesting data and the format data will be returned in.

Typically, the initial creation of documentation is easy, but the on-going maintenance of keeping that documentation up to date is hard. Imagine having to manually update documentation every time your code changes! It's good to use tools that automatically inspect your code and update the documentation.

---

## 3. Swagger



One of the most popular API documentation specifications is [OpenApi](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md), formerly known as the Swagger Specification. OpenAPI allows you to describe your API using JSON or YAML. Swagger is the name associated with some of the most well-known, and widely used tools for implementing the OpenAPI specification. Swagger helps you design, build, document and consume REST APIs. SpringFox is a Swagger integration for the Spring Framework.

 * Swagger Editor – A browser-based editor where you can write OpenAPI specs.
 * Swagger UI – A web application that renders OpenAPI specs as interactive API documentation.
 * Swagger Codegen – A tool that generates server stubs and client libraries from an OpenAPI spec.

---

## 4. Swagger UI

Dynamically generated documentation from a Swagger-compliant API is displayed in the Swagger UI, which consists of HTML, JavaScript, and CSS files. The documentation files are bundled by Swagger UI to display the API in a web browser.

Besides rendering documentation, Swagger UI allows other API developers or consumers to interact with the API’s resources without having any of their implementation logic in place.

#### Dependencies
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.springfox</groupId>
    <artifactId>springfox-swagger-ui</artifactId>
    <version>2.9.2</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>io.springfox</groupId>
    <artifactId>springfox-swagger2</artifactId>
    <version>2.9.2</version>
    <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
```

---

## 5. Swagger Configuration

The configuration of Swagger mainly centers around the Docket bean.

```java
@Configuration
@EnableSwagger2

public class SwaggerConfig {
   @Bean
   public Docket api() {
       return new Docket(DocumentationType.SWAGGER_2)
               .select()
               .apis(RequestHandlerSelectors.any())
               .paths(PathSelectors.any())
               .build();
   }

   private ApiInfo apiInfo() {
        return new ApiInfo(
                "Location API",
                "This API returns a list of airport locations.",
                "1.0",
                "http://www.udacity.com/tos",
                new Contact("Kesha Williams", "www.udacity.com", "myeaddress@udacity.com"),
                "License of API", "http://www.udacity.com/license", Collections.emptyList());
    }

}


```

 * @EnableSwagger2 : enable swagger
 * Docket : docket bean 
 * Docket(DocumentationType.SWAGGER_2) : we're saying the documentation type is Swagger
 * .select() : returns an instance of the API selector builder which essentially controls the endpoints exposed by Swagger.
 * .apis(RequestHandlerSelectors.any()).paths(PathSelectors.any()) : for the request handlers and the past selectors, using any() here, makes documentation available for the entire locations API. So it's not limiting the documentation at all.

Swagger also provides some default values in its response that you can customize, such as “Api Documentation”, “Created by Contact Email”, “Apache 2.0”. To change these values, you can use the ```apiInfo(ApiInfo apiInfo)``` method.

This docket bean is all we need in order to configure Swagger and have access to the Swagger UI.

---

## 6. Case Study: Swagger Configuration

The case study to be documented is a REST API that retrieves a list of locations from a database. The code can be cloned from [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/videolearning/udacity-java/tree/master/Lesson7-documenting).

The REST API has the following components:

 * Controller - LocationController.java
 * Service - LocationService.java and LocationServiceImpl.java
 * CRUD Repository - LocationRepository.java
 * Domain Entity/Model - Location.java
 * Swagger Config - SwaggerConfig.java
 * H2 Database accessible via http://localhost:8080/h2/
 * Tomcat Server accessible via http://localhost:8080
 * Swagger UI via http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html

Go to http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html and check the Swagger UI. On this page, Swagger lists all of the end points available in the service and you can test all of the endpoints created for you.

---

## 7. Customizing Swagger

 * It is not always desirable to expose the documentation for your entire API.
 * You can restrict Swagger's response by passing parameters to APIs and paths() methods of the Docket class.
 * Swagger also allows you to override response messages on HTTP methods.

---

## 8. Case Study: Error Messages

Swagger allows globally overriding response messages of HTTP methods. So springfox will provide default messages for certain error codes.

For example, 201 created, 204 no content, 404 not found, etc.

But there may be cases the default response messages don't really apply for your API.

So you can turn off default response messages and define your own using the app API responses annotation.


You can turn off the default responses on the Swagger configuration file like this.

```java
@Bean
   public Docket api() {
       return new Docket(DocumentationType.SWAGGER_2)
               .select()
               .apis(RequestHandlerSelectors.any())
               .paths(PathSelectors.any())
               .build();
               .useDefaultResponseMessages(false);
   }
```

 * .useDefaultResponseMessages(false) : turns off the default responses.

And goes to Controller, setting the responses like this.

```java

@RestController
@ApiResponses(value = {
        @ApiResponse(code=400, message = "This is a bad request, please follow the API documentation for the proper request format."),
        @ApiResponse(code=401, message = "Due to security constraints, your access request cannot be authorized. "),
        @ApiResponse(code=500, message = "The server is down. Please make sure that the Location microservice is running.")
})
public class LocationController {
    private LocationService locationService;

    @Autowired
    public void setLocationService(LocationService locationService) {
        this.locationService = locationService;
    }

    ...
}
```

You can check this on Swagger UI (http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html) and there's a codes and descriptions that you customize the responses.

---

## 9. Lab: Document Your Dog API

### Lab: Document Your Dog API

Reuse your Dog REST API code from Lesson 2 and document it using Swagger.

 * Step 1: Add the necessary dependencies to the Maven POM file that include Springfox’s implementation of Swagger.

 * Step 2: Configure Swagger using a Docket Bean.

 * Step 3: Utilize Swagger UI to review and test your API.

---

## 10. Lab Solution: Document Your Dog API

### Step 1: Add the necessary dependencies for Swagger.

First, I have started by copying over my code from the Dog REST API (I've excluded the security piece from earlier for simplicity). From there, I just need to add two dependencies:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.springfox</groupId>
    <artifactId>springfox-swagger-ui</artifactId>
    <version>2.9.2</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.springfox</groupId>
    <artifactId>springfox-swagger2</artifactId>
    <version>2.9.2</version>
    <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
```

### Step 2: Configure Swagger using a Docket Bean.
Now, I'll add a config package to my API and add a SwaggerConfig class within it. This file can be pretty much the same as the Case Study, although I'll alter it so the API Info matches the Dog API. I have not added any custom error messages here, although they can always be useful in your own implementations!

```java
@Configuration
@EnableSwagger2
public class SwaggerConfig {
    @Bean
    public Docket api() {
        return new Docket(DocumentationType.SWAGGER_2)
                .select()
                .apis(RequestHandlerSelectors.any())
                .paths(PathSelectors.any())
                .build()
                .apiInfo(apiInfo());
    }

    private ApiInfo apiInfo() {
        return new ApiInfo(
                "Dog REST API",
                "This API returns a list of dogs.",
                "1.0",
                "https://github.com/callmewaggs/",
                new Contact("waggs", "https://github.com/callmewaggs/", "zxv74014@gmail.com"),
                "License of API", "https://github.com/callmewaggs/", Collections.emptyList());
    }
}
```

### Step 3: Utilize Swagger UI to review and test your API.

Now, you should be able to head to http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html#/ and test out your API.

If you click on one of the available commands for your API, you should be able to Try it out and test that it works correctly. Depending on which you test, you may need to provide information (such as the id for getBreedByID), or be able to immediately Execute the query.

As you can see, automatically documenting your API with Swagger requires only a few lines of code, yet provides some incredibly useful functionality.

---